Ray Wednesday chatting with Bob Skrabonik and sitting in his living room over at 1105 Berkeley in College Station we're testing our machine Bob check yours okay I hope this comes through okay Bob since some people may use these memories of yours and years to come
and might not know about your background.
Would you begin this by describing your family background, where you grew up, where you went to high school?
What did you tell us about your life before you came to A&M to enroll as a student?
Okay.
I grew up in Snook, which is about 15 miles from today's present-day College Station.
At that time, it was an all Czech community, a really self-contained little cultural island in which we spoke Czech.
When I went to church, it was in that language.
Everything, our catechism, the Bible, the sermons, everything was in Czech.
So I think that had a lot of influence upon what happened to me as the days went along and how things life changed.
At that time, and by the way, I was born in 1918, one week after the Armistice was signed, and my mother would supposedly have said that, boy, she's glad she got her boy, you know, a son, because he will never have to fight in a war again, ever.
Anyway.
Regardless of that, little did she know about what was going to happen in the future.
So I started out there at that little community at Snook.
At that time we had only nine grades at the local school.
There were three rooms but nine grades.
So typically, if we were going to get a high school diploma, we had to go somewhere else to school.
And by the way, there were no hard surface roads.
There was no running water.
There was no electricity.
And so it was brought up under the old days of things like that.
And that had something to do with the fact also that
Then when it came time for me to complete, you know, to finish there at Snook last year, I would say roughly of the kids that were, let's say, my age at that time, probably 90% of them left and went to Houston and didn't pursue further education.
And they got jobs around Houston and places like that.
And I might comment, parenthetically at least, that one of the things I'm really proud of is that bunch of people that I grew up with, while they didn't have all the education, all that sort of stuff, they just did remarkably, remarkably well, which I really attribute to, again, growing up in the conditions under which I grew up.
Okay.
So then in order to finish high school or get a diploma, I went to Caldwell to school.
Now in those days, of course, again, there were no hard surface roads, and so we had no school buses.
So it was pretty necessary for me to live in town in Caldwell.
And particularly in the wintertime, there were a bunch of creeks that would overflow, you know, just impassable sometimes, and all muddy and all that.
So two other boys and I,
rented a room in Caldwell and we paid eight dollars a month for that big room in which we did all of our, whatever we did, that was it.
I would come home and
We would come home each weekend if we could, and by the way, I was in a high school band and things like that old high school, old Caldwell, and enjoyed, just had a tremendous time at high school.
Anyway, our folks were all farmers and had big gardens and, you know, put up sausage and all that sort of stuff year round, hams and whatnot.
So we took all of our food from home and we did our own cooking.
And, you know, just was, you know, the three of us really worked as a team there at that.
And so each weekend we would try to come home to get a fresh supply of food to take.
And sometimes during the rainy season that would be impossible.
So I can recall several times, like say on a Friday,
Maybe we'd have, let's say, we could buy a big old, well really a better than a quart of milk for a nickel, and we made rice and just made, you know, stirred up the milk and rice and that was our new meal.
Also, since we grew all these things, sometimes on Fridays when we had no, you know, good food left, because after all we had no refrigeration,
I remember that we used to fry, we all grew big sweet potatoes in those days.
We'd fry up a bunch of sweet potatoes and they would just glisten with all the grease on it and all that.
Pour a little sugar on that.
That was a grand, grand noon meal on Fridays.
So that's sort of the high school thing and I graduated in 1935.
And I was 16 at the time and had really no idea what I wanted to do in life.
I just didn't know.
I was just young and older.
I didn't have access to all the old things like people have today, like have people to tell me, you know, talk to and so forth.
My folks knew little about the outside world per se.
I didn't know what to do, so I went home and stayed at home with my parents.
I was the youngest of five and felt I was doing real well there, helping my mother and dad on the little farm there, and stayed at home that one year.
And while I was there, I somehow or another decided that I should do something else.
Obviously, time to move out.
By now, after all, I was the ripe old age of 17 and ready to go.
I found out that the A&M Dining Hall at that time, Spisa Hall, there was a guy by the name of Hotard, was the main guy, director of the dining halls in those days.
Anyway, a number of the Snook boys had gotten jobs at Spisa Hall, and that's what he was named in those days even, as cooks or whatever it was, bakers or whatever they were.
So I applied for a job there, and sure enough, and I'd say I was very fortunate because there were lots of guys after these jobs that time.
And I thought I had it made when I got there, and by the way, this had nothing to do with being a student at all, just strictly a full-time employee.
So when he got time to interview me, I thought it was rather strange because off right of hand, he called my name Skribani, which is rather rare for people to do that.
And so in the process of being interviewed, he said, do you know Tommy Scrivati?
I said, oh yes, he's my cousin.
So he kind of says, well, we were old roommates here at A&M.
So sure enough, I got a job.
And that job paid $45 a month.
And it included room and board and laundry.
And in those days, there were some kind of gray shacks that were about where the water tower is now, somewhere about there, you know, the big one there.
And we lived in those, and like I said, I got $45 a month.
And work hours were normally, and I was assigned to the so-called vegetable line.
We did the vegetables only, and then there were separate cooks and bakers or whatever they had of these others.
And typically, we got up about 4.30 probably in the morning.
and went over right across the street to the dining hall and got to eat breakfast but then we started preparing the noon meal and so our job from that point on
till about 1.30 maybe, we stayed there and it didn't work.
And I have some interesting things that happened during that time.
And by the way, all of the cadets that were on campus, they ate their whole meals there.
And one that I pulled, I remember it really bothered me a great deal, was that we had big drums.
in which they poured the excess, shall I say, lard or grease in those.
And so one time we were going to have corn.
And so we had big cans we opened.
And I didn't realize it, but instead of getting the grease from the proper place, I got the grease from what was tallow at that time.
And so you can imagine what happened when that first diff, when it first came out and the eggs were out there, the students old, they started eating that stuff.
Man, I thought I was going to get fired over the spot.
Nevertheless, Hothard kind of grinned and said, oh, that's all right.
So I worked there for that nine months and of course didn't have a summer job.
Now this is the fall, you started in the fall of 37?
I finished in 1942 at four years, so 42, 41, 40, 39, so that must have been 38 I guess.
38.
Okay.
And if there's some, yeah, I stayed home one year then I guess I tried, fall of 38.
I saved my money in the meantime thinking I wanted to go to A&M.
And in those days, we all were in ROTC.
So a lot of the clothes were furnished.
Wait, let's back up on that year.
Okay.
About how many were there like you who were simply Sabisa Hall employees, not students?
I would say almost none, although
They employed a bunch of students.
For example, O.D.
Butler worked in a butcher shop at that time, and of course you know he became a student.
And others were the same, but at that time, as far as I know, among my group anyway, they were full-time non-students, full-time workers.
And so I tried to save my money, whatever I could.
Oh, by the way, another thing.
We also worked six and a half, oh, I talked about the morning.
After that was done, we were free until about four o'clock.
Then we'd go back and stay there until about seven.
So I don't know how many hours that is.
We put in a full day.
And not only that, we got just one afternoon a week off.
Out of seven.
Out of seven, that's right.
For 45 bucks a month again.
And anyway, so I saved my money and bought a lot of secondhand stuff at the old, well, one that Ed Garner later had, I forget the guy's name who had it, at the north gate there.
You're meaning secondhand clothes or furniture?
Yeah, well, just a little bit.
No, no furniture.
No, just clothes or books or whatever I thought I would need.
Now, there had to be some encouragement back home.
Oh, yes.
What encouragement did your family give you to do that and to think about going to college?
Let's put it this way.
I really, and in reality, I'd have to say that my family, my mother and dad were the finest people in the world.
They were just the finest.
But they had no financial means of, you know, helping me or anyone.
And they, you know, they just, whatever I wanted to do, that was what they wanted me to do.
So in a way, surely, let's put it this way, I had all the love that anybody could possibly have.
But, you know, I was just out on my own.
So they didn't say, yeah, you go to college, you do this, you do this.
Like, in effect, they said, you know, here you are.
During that year before you were a student, what did you and your buddies do for relaxation when you had a little time off?
Well, first place, going back to high school days, one of the reasons I went to Caldwell instead of Somerville O'Brien was the fact that I had been taking, well, I had been taking music lessons on a trombone, and we local boys formed a little dance orchestra.
And we played mainly at that time in the Czech community we played oom-pa-pa type music, but graduated along so we could play other places.
So that was my main thing I guess that I did.
We played at dances, many different places, over some distance from home as a matter of fact.
I remember playing at Taylor for example, in an old SBJST hall there, and I remember one thing about that too is that
In those days, and I'm really reminiscing about this other thing now, at the dances that we played, we played on a commissioned basis.
Whatever the take was, we got half of it, the orchestra did.
And if we had a bum night, we just sometimes didn't get anything.
One night at Taylor, I remember we got $12 a piece.
And that was really big money.
And I remember also that I took that $12 and I bought
what in those days was called an absolutely tailor-made suit for 12 bucks, and I was so proud of that suit.
But anyway, so that was the main thing.
We practiced, and oh, we did other things, but sometimes we would come.
I had an older brother, by the way, who was teaching school, and he went to the University of Texas.
I'm digressing a little bit now, but he was one of these guys that was, oh, kind of a...
I was just saying, kind of a Bo Brummel type.
He was always dressed to fit to kill, all that sort of stuff.
And he went to the University of Texas and he taught school.
He'd teach school maybe a year and then drop out and work somewhere and do other things.
Then he'd go back anyway.
So when he found out I was going to go to A&M, I remember his remark very well.
He says, oh, Robert, you're going to go to that school or you're going to learn there.
You're going to learn how to march and farm.
Nothing else.
That's it.
So I had encouragement, but nevertheless, I'd have to be honest and say that it was in a way maybe a lack of something else to do.
do right so let's give me one other thing a lot of my friends went to houston at that time and they delivered milk for phoenix dairy and those were days of the horse drawn carts and and a local snook boy had who had worked at phoenix was a route manager and he would hire any check boy from snook you know just loved to have us because they were good workers
And I remember going to a state one night with a friend of mine there, and we got up early and he took me on his route, a little horse-drawn cart and delivered milk.
And I was told, you know, I had a job there, but I just didn't know what I wanted to do.
I was, I don't know, so I just thought up in there, yes.
During that year then that you worked full-time in the dining hall, you continued to play in this Czech orchestra?
Yes, that's right.
And most of your concerts were, your performances were on weekends?
Yes, Saturdays, almost.
Because in those days, because of the nature of the roads, about Saturday nights were about the only time there was anything.
We'd played Curtain.
At that time, we were at Southside, they had a dance hall.
Milliken-Welburn?
No, about where Kroger's is now.
What's the name of that little place there?
Anyway, it doesn't have that name anyway.
As a matter of fact, it's where the cemetery is now, just about now.
You can say the cemetery.
We used to play there in places like around here, Snoke.
One other feature I want to add, and I might be taking too much time here, is that in those days,
The cost of the dancing was 50 cents per male.
Women were free.
And so you can imagine we had to have a pretty good crowd to make any money.
There were about seven of us playing and we really enjoyed that.
Now would you all go in one vehicle or did it take two cars?
Most of the time it took two cars.
and you were the trombone player yes and i'm bragging now also was the vocalist and in those days we had no uh
Microphones.
Microphones, things like that.
So I remember that today I tell my kids, believe it or not, of course they don't know who this guy was, but I felt like I was Rudy Valli.
Of course I had one of those microphones.
Yeah, megaphone.
Megaphones.
Those were grand days as the girls floated by and smiled at me.
What were some of the most popular songs that you remember you all played?
Oh, man.
First of all,
When we first started out we played strictly umpah-pah type music.
And so in other words check polkas and waltzes and so forth.
But, and by the way I think we called ourselves something I'm not sure, something like maybe the Snoop Polka Boys or something like that.
Someone got the wise idea we needed to be better than that as we got a little better and better known.
And so we ended up with a name called the Lone Star Ambassadors.
I don't know where that came from but anyway.
And so some of the, we played for example Up the Lazy River, you know that one, Moonglow, and
At the moment, it escapes me, but those were the popular slower dances and so forth that we played.
And we even tried to at one time kind of have like a theme song like the big dance bands did in those days.
It was a song that went about Goodnight Sweetheart and so forth.
But that didn't go over because every time we played that, the crowd expect us to play Home Sweet Home.
So they didn't hear Home Sweet Home.
We had a great time.
So that's basically what I did at that time.
And then I think that summer when I finished at the dining hall working there, the AAA farm program was in.
And the local guy hired me to be his chain guy.
You know, in those days they measured the acreage of cotton and so forth.
And so I was the guy that ran the chain to plot out the, you know, and so I made little money there.
And that was down in the Brasses Bottom?
Well, no, that was every farm.
No, but I mean, in general, where was the area?
Around Snook.
Okay.
But then sometimes to finish up when somebody else wasn't through, we would go somewhere else, but not very far, maybe as far as lines or someplace like that, some of these other communities.
So you then enrolled?
So then I really don't remember the details, but I enrolled at Texas A&M then.
What did I say, 1938?
I believe that's right.
Okay.
Oh, 39.
Yeah, 38.
Okay, so I enrolled there.
And I remember at that time, at least best I can recall, the tuition was $50 a semester.
That was it.
And I had secondhand books and so forth.
And my first, and again, as I recall, and this may not be correct, but I really think I had only about $50 left after I had paid my fees.
And so I found out somehow that they had the project house system.
And there was an old house, a two-story house,
on what is now around F&B Road, I think.
And it was referred to as the haunted house.
And so I got in there, and it was a project house.
And as best I recall, we paid $12 a month for room and board.
And then they had a truck that we caught to go back and forth to the main town, of course.
And by that time, there was nothing, no buildings on the west side of the tracks at all.
Nothing like that.
How many lived in that house?
Do you remember?
I really don't know.
Probably about 15 or 20, something like that.
Were they from any particular place or scattered?
I think they must have been scattered.
But I didn't stay there very long because after I was at, as a freshman, I was there probably about six weeks, and my money was pretty well shot.
And I was thinking about withdrawing and just said, well, I'll just take one of these jobs as a milkman or something like that.
And I happened to run into an old boy who was a, about a junior at the time from Snook.
And told him I was going to quit.
Just couldn't go anymore.
And had no further means of income, money.
And so he sort of said, well, I said, don't do that.
You know, you're going to end up like the rest of the guys down there.
Why don't you do that?
So he suggested I put an ad in the old Brian Eagle.
And I did.
And it stated something like, farm boy willing to do anything in exchange for room and board.
And I put that ad in, and the very same day a guy called me from Bryan and said, look, I have anywhere between 12 and 20 cows to be milked, morning and night.
And then when you can, you'll help us deliver the milk by nothing pasteurized, nothing.
And these were friends in their church, which is at that time the College Avenue Baptist Church, which is located almost across the street from where the main courthouse is in Bryan now.
And so I did that, and I did that morning and night.
walked to where the courthouse is now, roughly somewhere right there.
And in those days, none of us had automobiles, of course.
And we'd thumb a ride to the campus.
And then after the school day was over, I would go back and she'd, his wife would prepare a little sandwich for me or something like that.
And we would congregate in the, at that time, where the YMCA building is now.
There was a bowling alley there, and we would congregate down there during Lunardi, Edom Hill, that sort of thing.
And that's where they also, there was a kind of, well, they served ice cream and stuff like that.
I forget who had that now.
It was very popular.
Now, where was this little dairy located?
Well, it wasn't really a dairy, it was just, it was personally owned, and so he had just his own, okay.
It was located out on what was called Knoll Lane, and that is on the east side of town, and I've driven by there several times to try to locate where that exactly was.
And I know kind of where it is, but I can't give you the, you know, all that has been developed and all that's been lost.
How did you get from there to the courthouse area to Thummara?
Walk, walk.
You walked, okay.
And now you're a freshman with this kind of task.
Yes.
And at that point, did you have any idea what you were going to major in?
No.
And let me say furthermore, going back again, there was an old ag that had graduated from A&M.
When we talked about me going to A&M, he gave me two pieces of advice.
Number one, in those days, you had to be in one of the military units, or whatever you call it.
He says, you want to be in the Coast Artillery.
That's one thing.
Number two, you want to major in ag because you want to be an ag teacher.
Neither one of these proved correct.
And the Coast Artillery, I was out of phase just real quick because in that field, they took basically engineering students.
And so, and they had to have math and trig and all that sort of stuff.
So I was sort of out of my element right away.
And then the other was also, I started out and didn't know what I started out in that field.
And the freshman year, I took a course.
called Fish and Game.
There was a professor by the name of W.B.
Davis that taught that course.
And he was just phenomenal.
He just did a tremendous job.
You might have heard of him.
And I just thought, boy, this is what I want to do.
So I changed to that.
And then stayed in that year.
But let me go a little bit further now, and I changed majors again, of course.
After the Fish and Game major, changed then to Sociology and how that came out.
Anyway, I went back and forth, you know, to class.
And let me mention one other thing that I think is kind of interesting.
My very first class that I had at A&M was in the chemistry building.
And in those days, if we had labs, we could wear coveralls.
And they were really coveralls and had the A&M logo on the back, A&M College of Texas.
And I was so proud I had my coveralls on.
And first class, I went to that classroom and sit down.
And it was a real nice room, apparently redone or whatever.
And I had a clipboard.
And I sat on the very front row because I wanted to make sure I was being noticed or whatever.
And there was a guy by the name of Eads, E-A-D-S, he was a professor.
And the very first thing he jumped right on me, right off the bat, and he just, he really let me have it.
He said, what are you doing with that clipboard?
Are you going to scratch the surface of that, you know, and all that?
And it just made me feel so small I just, you know, almost said, gee, I'll get out here and go home or something.
Anyway that was my first experience in the classroom.
Okay.
So I would thumb a ride back and forth.
starting at the court house.
In those days that was no problem, no problem.
Anybody that had room, no problem.
So I stayed there that freshman year and completed that freshman year that way.
And then that summer I went home and
They took me into the office in Caldwell, the AAA office, in which I ran what was called a plonometer.
It was kind of a little bitty instrument where they drew the lines on the farms as they were shown.
You would run that to show how many acres that they had and all that sort of stuff.
So I stayed there.
And by the way, I stayed in an old little shack in the backyard of one of the houses and did my own cooking and all that sort of stuff again.
And then comes the second, then comes the sophomore year, I decided I'd had enough of milk and cows and all that, if best I could.
So I rented a room, almost downtown Brine, from people who had lived, well, a young, the lady had been grown up in Snoke and knew my folks.
And so I rented a room from them, had kitchen privileges.
did my own cooking and brought my food home and all that sort of stuff.
Stayed there about a semester and in the meantime an opening occurred on the campus in the project houses that used to be on the south side of those white ones over there.
So I got in one of those and I lived there in the Leon County Project House.
And at that time, I remember specifically, again, we definitely paid $12 a month for room and board, and I think there were 36 of us in that one house.
And four of us to the room, and the room was very small, but that's beside the point.
And so that's how, but anyway, also worked for the N.Y.A.
in those days.
They paid us 30 cents an hour to do whatever we were assigned to do.
And I worked in the landscape department.
What we did in those days, there were no motorized lawnmowers or anything like that.
So we mowed grass, whatever needed done, you know, chopped or grass or whatever needed.
And by the way, I helped plant some of those trees that are lying the main.